Cardiff Carnival 25th Anniversary Project.
Interviewer Steve Fletcher.
Interviewee Lorraine Castellano.
We're in the Swicker office and today's date is the 21st or 22nd even of October 2015.
Before we start, Lorraine, would you be kind enough to spell your name in full?
L-O-R-R-A-I-N-E. Castellano is C-A-S-T-E-L-L-A-N-O.
That's 10 out of 10, that's well spelled. Thank you very much.
Lorraine, of course I know you as part of what we informally know as the Burley Girls, very much part of the Cardiff Ballest scene.
How did you first come across Cardiff Carnival?
Well it's part of a yearly event, we always go to the carnival and then we were very very pleased to be asked would we perform once again.
So of course we all jump at the chance because it's another opportunity to dress up and perform.
One of our shows was called Flying Down to Rio.
So we needed the help and assistance from you guys at Swicker and obviously Adrian is such a whiz with the glue gun and the glitter and wire and everything.
And we needed to know how to make our headdresses for our showgirl costumes and our cage bras.
So we came along to many sessions and the end result, obviously if you go on the page you'll see it, but the end result we just made the most fabulous costumes.
And sequins, feathers, braiding, everything and we shone and sparkled.
And then obviously we performed at the actual carnival itself and we did a few numbers and then we paraded.
What was the audience reaction like to see these wonderful Samba showgirls, Burley style, in the centre of Cardiff?
I think they were transported and I think they absolutely thought that's carnival.
That's what a carnival should have. And we delivered.
That was big time.
Yeah, we really, really, we knew we...
Across your group there were hundreds of feathers, weren't there?
I often say there's a lot of bald chickens in China as a result of us.
Whether you believe in it or not, but hopefully we did it as humanely as possible.
I'm sure they're given woolen coats or something to walk around in.
I'm sure they'll be happy.
A good cause.
A good cause because they were being shown off to their fall and it was beautiful.
Yes, absolutely.
We had the weather on our side as well, which was great.
And it was a very, very special time for me because I'd just been diagnosed with a very rare cancer.
So on the Thursday before the carnival, I'd had my first chemo session and I was so determined.
I told my oncologist, there is no way I'm missing the carnival.
And she went, well, I don't know how you're going to be, blah, blah, blah.
But this is your date. You have to be on it.
Right. Well, we negotiated.
So off I went to Vilyndra, had the session.
That was Thursday, Friday, Saturday. Costume went on.
And I had my son as an attendant running to the side of me.
Yeah, he's a Marine. So I was in good hands.
Yes. And we just had an absolute blast.
Lots of funny moments. The wind caught our headdresses.
We had to hold them. Mine was a little bit spiky on the front.
So I had to put a piece of kitchen sponge.
You're a master of improvisation.
It was honestly. Yes.
And then it was so much fun. We had lots of photographs.
Everybody wanted the mayor wanted a photograph with us.
Everybody did. So we were very famous.
Stars for one day.
And then we finished the parade and then we all decided in our regalia
and our beauty, we'd go into where the spoons.
That's a high class establishment. It was wonderful.
And I think the football was on and the poor gentlemen that were in there,
they didn't know whether to watch the football come and talk to us.
They were in a twirl. Yes.
Complete twirl. They were having photographs with us.
I can imagine. It's very rare. Yes.
15, 20 beautifully underdressed samba dancers coming to your pub.
I don't think the football would have been looking normally.
They think they thought they'd been transported to Rio.
Was it Rio? Brazil? The football?
They absolutely will come.
Was that last year or the year before? Anyway, I think we were a year in advance.
We were giving them a taste. A foretaste of what was to come.
I think we were giving them a taste of what, you know,
if you buy your ticket to Rio, you'll get a bit of this.
I'm right thinking the following year, so yeah, in my mind,
so I can see you there in all your samba finery looking wonderful.
And the following carnival, there was a different theme, wasn't there?
Something a bit more piratical, I understand.
Very much so. This is what we try and do.
We're all out to shock and to get the mind going of all our audience.
We're all out there, and they never know what we're going to.
This is our director.
We always have to think, OK, it'll turn out OK.
This is the glorious Fufu Labelle.
Fufu Labelle will definitely get your mind going.
And, you know, us as a group, we just have to say, OK,
and she'll go, run with it, run with it, just, you know, and we'll go, OK.
So we ran with it, and we were pirates.
Not your everyday pirates. And we had a boat as well.
We had to, yes, perform with a boat.
But our costume had to be three in one because we had to have one costume on,
which we could then do three dances.
You're like Russian dolls, this is, isn't it?
A little bit, yes.
And we had nowhere to change.
It was literally in front of everybody.
That's the drive-cars, full of soap and air.
And we'd been watching the weather forecast.
We thought, oh, crumbs, this is going to be a bit tricky.
So you're freezing cold anyway.
But once you start dancing, you do warm up.
And then we do the first number is the pirates.
So we're in our full regalia.
And I'd spent many hours again at Swicker with the workshops and the drop-in centres
so I could embellish the costume because I wanted to sparkle once again.
This was completely different.
And so, yes, I was all ready to go.
Then we did the first number, pirates, that goes.
Then we have the music changes and we take a few more items off.
Then we do mine hair.
From cabaret, which is a classic for the S-track.
You know, you just think, where's this going?
And that went down really, really well.
And then the finale was the time warp, which you just have to get your head around all of this.
From the Rocky Horror Picture Show.
Yes, and there's no logic in it.
You can't match it up anything, but it works.
You see it performed as a cabaret knight.
Huge audience.
So people chanting along with you and clapping.
And they love it because they know it.
They dance with it.
Isn't it the end where you're all on your backs like dying flies and the rest of it?
What a way to end the show.
Definitely, yeah, we have to do that.
That is the best bit.
And you collapse on the floor.
And you need to collapse on the floor because this is, you know, we've done three numbers.
And one after another.
Normally, you get a gap.
Another performer comes in.
And this was in the haze outside St David's Hall, wasn't it?
Yes, and it was all outside.
And it was all public as you can get.
We've had photographs which have been taken from the shops surrounding the area.
But aerial shops.
So people who were working were taking them from the wind, you know, the bulky areas.
Above TK Maxx and all that area.
We've had some amazing shops posted.
Big audiences, 500,000 people.
Yeah, it was.
And you had them in the palm of your hands.
They loved you.
Yes.
Your audience adored you.
And then they follow us on the parade, obviously through Cardiff.
And the weather wasn't as kind on this occasion, but we still did our bit.
Obviously, I love to wear wigs.
So my hair stayed dry, but the rest of me, I was absolutely, it wasn't a part of me.
It wasn't soaked.
Welcome to Cardiff, Wales.
I know.
And I remember the dye from my fishnets and my boots came out, and my legs and my feet were permanently stained for weeks.
And it was, I just couldn't get it off.
I used nail varnish, removed everything.
I just couldn't get it off.
We do like to leave our mark on people.
That was literally there, wasn't it?
Yeah.
So we didn't venture into any pub because at the state of us, we all went sort of like home for hot cocoa, I think.
Yeah, hot toddies all around.
Definitely.
But all in all, the carnival for us is a highlight of our calendar.
Yeah.
And it's like, I'm not quite sure about this carnival, not going to be.
I'm not quite sure I agree.
Well, I don't agree.
I passionately don't agree.
And I just think it's a little odd.
It leaves a gap.
And I'm not quite sure how you'll fill it.
I don't think you will.
I just find it very odd that we're not having a carnival.
Everywhere has a carnival.
We're a city.
It almost goes on.
Carnival is carnival, you know.
And it's all the things that go with it.
You plan it.
And it's not just the day.
It's everything.
I think it's the buildup to it.
That's what we, as a group, our Burley girls, that's what we enjoy is all the things that go to make that show.
That's the structure, the part, the build, and then the show.
And a funny anticlimax afterwards.
You have to experience that to then build again.
Yes.
To go to the next one.
Absolutely.
It's the ups and downs.
But I think it's not a good thing.
It's not a good thing.
Obviously, we would like it to be every year.
I don't know.
Maybe we'd have to do a rogue one.
Maybe a rogue one will have to happen.
I hear what you're saying there.
Something alternative.
Underhand.
Left field.
Definitely.
Pop up.
A pop up carnival.
What's it called then?
Flash dancing.
Carnival flash mob.
Yeah.
We could easy do that.
We've got the costumes.
We can make the costumes.
We're giving it away on tape here now.
Watch this space.
It will happen.
Lorraine, can I say thank you so much for sharing your carnival memories.
I'm delighted to say I can award you with the honor of Carnival Queen in posterity and
for eternity.
So bless you and thank you very much indeed.
Thank you.
Enjoy this in years to come.
Thank you very much.